And this show is creating some very simple grass using our hair particle system.
Quick note to start off is I've just organized my collections a little bit.
It's been a real mess.
Apologies if you're the sort of person who has been yelling at the computers saying, Rick, organize
your collection, why don't ya?
So I've just got lights reference cat and we're about to create some ground.
So let's do that.
Let's shift a mesh plane at ourselves.
A plane s to scale it up, up, up, up, around about dead on it.
Two huge rolls.
My computer's gonna go a little bit crazy, but I need it big enough so that if my camera is back,
a little bit more things fit on there.
So they'll be a little bit of fine tuning.
But as we've learned, it's better to try to get these things as close as possible from the get go and
not to be editing geometry or scaling things at the end.
I'm just going to control a and set the or apply all the transforms just out of habit.
So we apply our scaling that we just did.
I'm trying to replicate my image in the background there where I've just got the cat walking through
a fairly flat ground plain of the grass.
I'll turn the other couple of images off.
Actually, these two over here, you know, does rename plane to be a ground.
I'm on a little bit of a naming Sprey here at the moment.
Put that into that ground folder or collection.
Sorry, I start by clicking on my material properties.
Add new.
Changed the name of this double click, change it to ground grass.
I think I'll call this.
Now you can see that I've got my shader ed open and we've already got things starting to come to life
over in the shade.
Ed, give ourselves a little bit more space.
I'm going to shift a texture and image texture, pop that next door to our principal, connect color
to color.
I'm going to open and I've gone and downloaded myself.
Let me show you an image from texture's dot com.
So I just went and typed in a grass.
There's a bunch of cool things we get here.
I'm just looking for sort of grass ground that I could use to put underneath all of the grass particles.
So grab yourself a texture, download that, navigate to where it's hiding mine.
What did I call it in the end?
Grass, ground texture.
Wonderful.
You can see that's brought that in.
Nothing's appearing at the moment.
That's because I'm not in one of my views that can view it.
There we go.
Now it's a little bit scaled up.
So the way we go about giving ourselves control of the scaling makes sure under edit preferences that
you've got node wrangler turned on.
So search for node wrangler.
Mine is indeed turned on.
That will allow us to mouseover our image that we just brought in our grass, ground texture and control
t that will add.
Next door we've got mapping and texture coordinate plugged into the appropriate places.
Now we can find scale just shift and drag from X, Y and Z.
And I'm gonna make mine five on the scale that scales it all up nicely.
Now, Slavitt white and shiny.
That is because if you look at our principal best, D.F., I need to put the specular all the way down
to zero and we don't have that shininess on our grass ground plane.
Now, doesn't matter if it looks a little bit crummy because we're going to be putting grass over the
top of it.
I was want to make sure we're not looking down below and seeing, say, a white ground plane.
Okay.
At this point, I've got a challenge for you, which is to add some grass just using our regular old
particle system with no imported image and no other magic, just the techniques that we've been using
to put hair and fur on various things.
We can do the same thing with grass.
The bonus points add some colour variation for your grass.
So there's a challenge for you.
See if you can figure that out.
And when you come back, I'll go through adding some simple grass into my scene.
Okey dokey, now, with any particle system, there's a lot of fiddling and playing around and seeing
what numbers you like best.
So I'm going to do the best to not do too much fiddling around on screen.
I'll see if I can figure it out straight away or in a click on my particle properties.
Plus, rename this to be simple grass.
I think I'll call this make it hair, decrease the haling down to, I think point eight.
Leave the number a thousand for the moment.
I think that's fine.
I'm going to pop into my rended view.
It's going to slow things up considerably, but at least they'll start to get a little bit of a feel
for what's happening in my scene and a bit of randomness through roughness.
So scrolling down down actually will add on some children.
For now, I'm just gonna put this at, say, three.
But the render amount.
I'm going to have y hired, say, 50, so I'm not going to see the density that I'm looking for.
But hopefully that will have our spin out to look at things a lot more quickly without having all of
that on the screen now under roughness.
I'm going to try to adding in a little bit of point three into the random and you can see it's looking
very angular.
That to me says that somewhere we don't have enough strands on the viewport display.
I'll increase that to four.
And what do we have under our render?
We've got steps in our path is three will increase that to four as well.
See how we go, the hair shape.
I'm going to change the diameter to make diameter to make it a little bit bigger.
One point five.
And the strange shape, if we go in the negative direction, we're going to have a taller, skinnier
type of grass.
If we go in the positive, it's gonna be fatter down the bottom and then just pointy at the ends.
I'm going to try.
Point four and see how that looks.
And at this point, I'll do a little test render.
I'd much rather be working in Eevee because Eevee we can do things way quicker, but the particle system
just looks so different in Eevee compared to how it looks in cycles.
So I want to end up in cycles.
Icona need to be looking at it in cycles.
As you can see here, my camera is in totally the wrong spot.
So let's go ahead and put our camera in a place where we're actually going to be out to see what's going
on.
Turn our camera on.
Whereas it at the moment it's in nice and close underground.
That would be it.
GZ, move it up.
Now I can see it.
And on my keyboard I'm going to find view change lock camera to view.
Excellent.
I'll get in again.
I'll get roughly the spot that I want.
It gets can be a little bit higher than I would have preferred.
I want to get too much of this foreground grass right in the face of the camera.
So I'm going to hit control all zero and we will position the camera position position.
You can see a little bit of the extra grass plain exposed the edge of it here.
We'll deal with that a little bit later on.
I'm just going to get a few things set up and see outlooks do a render while it's rendering.
I'm going to jump back to Blender.
Just hit an on lock camera to view it.
You can see we've got some starting point for our grass already.
I don't think it's got enough kind of variance variation and way Venus in it.
So let's do a little bit of twiddling with that.
One other thing we could be doing in here, I could have mentioned this about 50 videos ago, but we
can jump over into render.
And in terms of the number of samples we're taking, we could pump this down and change it to thirty
to see if that's good enough.
Okay, that's a good starting point.
What I'll do next is I think I'll add some colour variation into our particles.
So click on the plane, come down to our materials.
I'm going to click on Plus to add a new one.
Or I could have clicked on new.
That would've been the smart thing to do.
Click on new does plus add new at the same time.
Double click on material.
We will call this basic grass and we so we can see our results.
I'll jump over to particle properties.
We will find rindo.
Where are you Rindo.
There we go.
No, that was there we go.
Render material.
I'll change the basic grass.
It should all go white.
Yes it does.
Over into our shader.
Ed, we've been through this before.
Little mini challenge for you.
If you didn't take this on in the big challenge, how do you go about adding some colour variation to
our particles?
Well, shift a I'm going to search for color ramp.
Put that in there and then shift again.
I'm going to search for hair to say this is hair info.
Click out random Two-Factor, and then color to color.
Let's just do a little test.
Click on Black.
Change it to something that's super going to pop.
Yes.
And you can see in here we've got a mixture of that.
Whatever.
Pink color and white.
Great.
Now I'm going to.
Physical changes from pink back to more of a green cross turns to green and not pink.
I think I'll click.
Plus, plus, plus.
So now we've got five different colors.
So we go about the process of making a five colored lawn right at the top here.
I will give it a maybe a bit more of a yellowy kind of hue to it.
Not quite so bright.
And then we'll give it more of a brighter greeny type color.
Then a couple of darker ones.
I think a darker kind of green, maybe a little bit of a little bit of brownness in there as well.
We'll see if we can get a bit of that in there as the same before.
I think we need a little bit more randomness in what we've got.
One way we can do that is by clicking on advanced and finding the physics and adding a little bit of
a force to it.
So under Brownian, let's add point oh five, nice and gentle at the start to see what happens.
I'm a little bit of squiggly nose in it, kind of sometimes it makes you strands go unnatural.
It doesn't just push them to the side.
It actually kind of makes them go jaggedly.
But we'll add a little bit of that and see what happens.
And also, I think a bit more of randomness.
So scrolling down, down, down to the roughness will increase the randomness to point six.
Maybe change a few these other variables, the end point.
Point one.
See if that does anything interesting.
Do another render.
I'm liking the unevenness a little bit more.
That's fine.
They haven't played around with these.
They're clumping.
So let's have a look.
If we clump just a little bit, increase the clumping.
We'll say.
Point three five.
See how that looks for us.
And give it a little bit of shape.
Maybe a point one eight seven.
Just experimenting here.
Grass naturally does clump.
It's not like one strand.
It grows on its own.
Grass tends to grow as little bowls of of grass, little clumps of grass.
So not seeing a lot of impact here from doing the clumping, but it does.
It's looking grass ish at the moment.
My goal here is just to get an underlying layer that we can then go and scatter some other little interesting
bits of grass throughout it.
So this is just the foundation, if you will.
Okay.
I've just been doing some fiddling off camera, and when I look at my reference image, the grass is
pretty consistent in terms of height.
It's as if it's been mown recently.
But I want some variation in mind to get the height variation in our particles.
We scroll down to timing and we see.
So this is under render.
And then under render, we have timing.
You can see random.
If you turn the random up, you'll have more of that random height for your particles.
And for me, I needed a little bit more depth when I did that.
So increased the render amount of my children to 100.
Now, when I do a render, it looks like this.
So that we have it, we still need a few other bits and pieces in the grass to make it look a bit more
natural.
But that's a very quick way of creating grass and also a safe way if you're having issues with other
ways of creating grass, such as having issues with transparency.
This is a nice, clean, safe way of creating some quick, simple grass.
I will see you in the next lecture.